Welcome, I am so excited to be here today
to talk to you about ASP.NET Core and
building API with ASP.NET Core.
My name is Spencer and I am gonna take
you on a little bit of a journey.
But first I'm gonna open up with just
a little bit of a bold statement that I
believe that .NET is the best platform for
building web apps in the world.
Now, I believe this because I've been
writing software for about 15 years, and
I have used a huge ton of frameworks,
and the one that gives me the most joy,
the one that I love writing every day,
is still ASP.NET Core.
Those are... Building APIs
in ASP.NET Core is still the thing
that I have the most fun doing.
A little bit about me, I am the President
and CTO of Aviron Software, so
we are a software consultancy that
does primarily .NET development,
so I was able to build this
just mostly by doing .NET.
We also do some React and Microsoft Azure
and React Native mobile apps as well.
I've been recognized for about ten years
as a Microsoft MVP with my award category
being in the development space,
specifically ASP.NET Core,
if you can believe that.
And I have been a .NET consultant for
my company's been around for about four
years, but I've been a .NET consultant for
probably almost all my career.
I started out on a website
similar to indeed.com, and
when I got paid 75 bucks to write a stored
procedure, I did it in like 15 minutes,
and I was like, Okay, this is really cool.
And I've never stopped being a .NET
consultant from there, I've also spoken
around the world at many conferences
around about ASP.NET Core topics.
And so the culmination of all of that
experience went into building this
workshop.
So the goal here is to teach you how I
build web APIs using ASP.NET Core and
.NET.
It's built from the ground up
to be pragmatic, practical,
you can take 99% of this code and
apply it to your job, and the 1%,
I will call out and
tell you don't do this.
But what I plan to do is take us
on a little bit of a journey, so
I'm going to take us to starting
out from .NET New Project.
I'm gonna build an API from scratch and
what I'm gonna do from there is refactor
it and slowly make it more complicated.
I'm gonna show you tools and
things about ASP.NET Core along the way
that you'll use in your day to day.
It's built from all of the experience
that I have building APIs,
real APIs in real production environments.
Now, I wanna make sure that, make sure to
let you know that there's no ivory towers,
I'm not telling you that there's
one true way to do things.
These are the things that I have done in
my career that have made helped make me
successful and
build really good APIs for my clients.
I also believe in minimizing
magic in code, and what I mean
by that is that sometimes things just work
and you don't necessarily understand why,
I want to pull back that
curtain a little bit.
So as we go,
I will be digging into the source code for
ASP.NET Core here and there, just to
kind of show you and get you used to it.
I read source codes
surprisingly a lot when,
especially when debugging
like nuanced issues.
So the tooling that we use,
will allow you to dig right into that,
I do want to talk a little bit about why
you should choose to use ASP.NET Core.
First of all, there's a ton of jobs
in the market, I have a consultancy,
as I mentioned, I have about ten people.
Four years ago I started myself by myself,
and
then three years later I had about eight
people, and now I have 11 or 12 or so.
So there's lots of jobs,
there's lots of work to be done,
there's lots of interest in the
marketplace for ASP.NET Core specifically,
I find that it's fun to use and write,
I have always connected with .NET.
It was my first programing platform, but
after being exposed to all the other ones,
I've connected with it the best I have,
the most fun when I'm writing APIs for
.NET Core.
It's open source and cross platform,
and I think that's really important,
I get questions all the time.
Isn't Microsoft closed source?
Don't you have to have windows?
I'm gonna be doing all of this development
that you're seeing on a Macintosh.
I don't use windows if I can help it, and
I use .NET almost exclusively on a Mac.
We have a strong developer, ecosystem as
well, and what I mean by that is that
there's a lot of people using the
platform, so that means that, naturally,
there's going to be a lot of people that
contribute to that platform.
There's a lot of open source projects,
some of them that we will bring
into our project to kind of
help us do certain tasks.
It's highly performant and scalable,
it's modern and secure and backed by.
One of my favorite tech companies in
the world, which is Microsoft, and
plays nicely with others.
My favorite pairing for
ASP.NET Core is React, actually.
If I'm making a single page app,
if I'm starting one from scratch,
it's almost certainly gonna be
React backed by ASP.NET Core.
So as I mentioned, this course is designed
to give you kind of my summation of my
real world experience,
this is how I build real APIs.
We're gonna do source code deep dives,
at least here and there,
I'm gonna show you
professional best practices,
as well as show you a few things
that I think you should avoid.
And all of the examples are practical,
so you'll be able to follow along, and
we'll go into that here just in a little bit.
Last thing I'll say is that I'm
pretty opinionated, if you watched
my previous C sharp, course, none of this
should be any of any surprise to you.
However, when it comes to ASP.NET Core,
I'm extra extra opinionated because
this is where the rubber meets the road.
This is where you're actually going in and
building production level
applications is using this framework.
So anything that you see That has
the three chili peppers on it,
that's my spicy take, and
I have plenty of them.